# NYHousingSalesAnalysis
Using a Deep Neural Network to predict property sale prices in Manhattan

It is well known that New York City is home to some of the most expensive properties in the country. The average person can find themselves living a few blocks from the aptly named “Billionaire Row,” and property transactions contribute to a significant portion of the New York economy. It thus becomes meaningful to be able to predict sale prices within the city. These estimates can help inform economic decisions made by the government, predict the average sale price in a neighborhood, and help create indicators of when the housing market is behaving abnormally in a certain area.

To predict a value, we often use regression. Among the most powerful models for performing regression is the neural network. It is able to expand a feature space, extract important indicators, and learn a model based on these parameters. Neural Networks are commonly used to make predictions about the nature of real estate markets. This method has been used in the past for housing price predictions in Hong Kong. This paper found that neural networks are effective in predicting sale prices over a given time series and that features such as number of units, property price index, and rental index are strong indicators of sale price. We find that one of these features— units— is also available to us in our dataset. This gives a good indication that a neural network, given the right architecture, will be able to learn the transformations of the correct features and generalize well.

Furthermore, we will be attempting to tune our model’s hyperparameters to achieve a faster convergence time. It is well known that neural networks generally will learn over time and perform well. Therefore, loss is not a good indicator of the effect of parameter tuning if we can assume that our model can train for any hundred number of epochs. It has been found that measuring convergence time is a far more effective indicator of neural network performance. Based on this information, it thus becomes our objective to train our model on separate architectures to find out at which point our architecture achieves fastest convergence. The model which is capable of doing this will thus become the model we choose to evaluate our test set on.
